So we saw for wood the future tense of wood, we have our key sound ia.
We have the key sound ia which we are adding on to the end of the verb
And this gives you the version for I, he, she, it and you form more.
So for this one we have I jumping in with he, she, it, you formal.
So we can take a verb like
Hablar and we can say I would speak.
Hablar is to speak and I would speak.
Ablaria.
Good.
We would speak
Aplariamos.
They would speak.
Aplarian.
Good.
They wouldn't speak.
No hablarían.
Good.
The verb to like in Spanish is gustar.
Gustar.
So to like is gustar.
But it works differently in Spanish.
And the way it works in Spanish
renders the translation to like as kind of complicated.
It would be much better to translate Gustard as to be pleasing.
So when you say I like it
What we want to say in Spanish is it is pleasing to me.
That's the way we say I like it in Spanish.
It is pleasing to me.
So if you take gustar to mean to be pleasing or to please, how would you make it is pleasing or it pleases?
Gusta.
Gusta, good.
So that's it is pleasing or it pleases.
Now if you want to say it is pleasing to me
Me gusta.
And this is how you say I like it in Spanish.
So a very common error that Spanish learners make is to say me gusto.
No?
translated like from English literally I like and they say gusto but what does that mean then actually if you say me gusto what what does it mean if gustar means to be pleasing
It means I please myself.
Yes, it means I please myself.
I like myself.
Huh?
So you want to be careful there.
You don't want to be walking around telling everybody how much you like yourself.
Me gusta mucho.
No, me gusta mucho.
It pleases me.
So if you're saying I like them, then of course what you're saying is they please me.
So we must take this inter step, this Spanglish step, to think about it literally, to think it through literally so we're sure that we're getting the meaning that we want.
So how would you say I like them or they please me or they are pleasing to me?
Me gustan.
Good.
Good
So how do you think you would say I would like it would please me?
Me gustaría.
Good.
So just like in English you use this a lot in Spanish.
Megusteria to eat now.
I would like to eat now.
Megustaria Comer Aura.
Good.
Megustaria Comer Aura
We would like to eat now.
It would please us to eat now.
It's nos gustarian.
It it would please us to eat now.
So you have this idea is nos custarian correct?
No, because you have this idea of nos, you have this plural idea
And it's manifesting itself in the verb.
So you're not totally in control of your building process at the moment.
You're letting some guesswork come in and you need to cut it.
You need to start with the verb.
It would please us.
So it would please.
Custaria.
Exactly.
So when you start with the verb you're in control, now you can say it would please us.
Nos gustaría to eat now.
Comer ahora.
Exactly.
Very good.
Nos gustaría comer ahora.
What was to say, to see or to view?
Ver?
Good, there, good.
I would like to see you.
Let's speak informally.
Me gustaria verte.
Good.
Me gustaria verde.
A couple of verbs.
They contract a little bit when we add on our
future endings.
So when I say our future endings I refer to both futures, will and would.
For example, we have poder to be able, and would be able is a could, no
I would be able to go, I could go.
So we have poder to be able or can and then we add iA for wood and it would be poderia.
But this is a very common verb and common verbs are much more subject to change and irregularity.
So many years of poderia, poderia, poderia, poderia poderia the e got lost.
the air fellaway, the air of poder.
So I could, he could, she could, it could, you formul could, is podria.
Podria.
You can give me the other versions of course.
How would you say they could or you guys could?
Podrian.
Good.
And you informal?
And we?
Good.
What was to come?
Venir.
Could you come to my house?
How was my house?
Mikasa.
Mikasa, good.
So how would you say could you come?
And this is to come.
We don't say to here in English.
But it's the second verb will be in the two form.
Could you come to my house?
Let's speak informally
Podrias venir a mi casa.
Good.
To say or to tell is decir.
So we have hablar, which is to speak or to talk.
But to say or to tell is desir.
Could you tell me something?
And we're speaking informally still.
¿Me podrías decir algo, o podrías decirme algo?
Could you tell me if you want to come?
So let's start with could you tell me if?
And I remind you that if is the same as yes.
Okay.